[5:53pm] msalzberg: rawr so who is all here!
[5:53pm] msalzberg: show yourself!
[5:53pm] dns|CostaRica: RAWR!!!!
[5:54pm] Kevin_: Rawr
[5:54pm] DenSchub: Blubb.
[5:54pm] DenSchub: dns|CostaRica: Costa Rica?
[5:54pm] DeadSuperHero: herp
[5:54pm] DenSchub: Niice!
[5:54pm] dns|CostaRica: furreal!
[5:54pm] dns|CostaRica: party!
[5:54pm] msalzberg: grippis got hella doctors appointment
[5:54pm] msalzberg: so he will be late
[5:55pm] stwf_ joined the chat room.
[5:55pm] Kevin_: Is he okay? 
[5:55pm] stwf_: hello!
[5:55pm] msalzberg: yeah he's cool normal stuff
[5:55pm] DenSchub: Huh
[5:55pm] msalzberg: heyyyo stwf_
[5:56pm] msalzberg: so who are the bug mashers that are here so far today
[5:56pm] msalzberg: i see raven24 and stwf_
[5:56pm] msalzberg: who am i missing
[5:56pm] stwf_: yup
[5:56pm] msalzberg: hard to keep track github <=> irc <=> diaspora 
[5:57pm] raven24:                          
[5:57pm] DeadSuperHero: Let's see, I've made a list...
[5:57pm] • msalzberg is grateful that raven24 and stwf_ keeps it easy for me 
[5:58pm] dmorley joined the chat room.
[5:58pm] DeadSuperHero: diasp is also here, if that's in fact diasp.eu, who committed a fix that got merged.
[5:58pm] DeadSuperHero: Hopefully rekado will pop in, he made a fix this week as well.
[5:59pm] msalzberg: i know is is on a new time zone for us
[5:59pm] ktr_ joined the chat room.
[5:59pm] dns|CostaRica: dmorley's in the house.
[5:59pm] erchache2000: hi
[5:59pm] msalzberg: so who knows what time it is in shanghai
[5:59pm] dmorley: hihi
[5:59pm] dns|CostaRica: ahoy!
[5:59pm] msalzberg: dmorley sup
[5:59pm] msalzberg: how many people are… at work?
[5:59pm] stwf_: me
[5:59pm] stultus: its 11.29 PM here in india 
[6:00pm] dmorley: yup @ work, my only hour of no meetings today oddly enuf
[6:00pm] Arctic joined the chat room.
[6:00pm] DenSchub: I just left the office - 7pm here 
[6:00pm] str4ngerZ joined the chat room.
[6:00pm] msalzberg: nice
[6:00pm] msalzberg: going to wait like 4 minutes to start
[6:00pm] msalzberg: just to let some stragglers come in
[6:01pm] str4ngerZ: salutes
[6:01pm] dns|CostaRica: SHITS BLOWING UP!
[6:01pm] stwf_: 1PM here in NY
[6:01pm] dns|CostaRica: noontime in CostaRica
[6:01pm] dns|CostaRica: 4 1/2 minutes, just to make things even.
[6:01pm] stwf_: ok, I'll be in Costa Rica atomorrow 
[6:01pm] msalzberg: whhhhaa?
[6:01pm] dns|CostaRica: brb howler monkey
[6:01pm] msalzberg: ok furreals
[6:01pm] pawan: hello fellow Diasporians
[6:01pm] msalzberg: who has submitted a pull request at least once?
[6:01pm] DeadSuperHero: Hi pawan 
[6:01pm] zipR4ND joined the chat room.
[6:01pm] msalzberg: just wanna get a sense of whose all here?
[6:02pm] pawan: hi
[6:02pm] stwf_: I have two waiting in the queue now
[6:02pm] dangar4l: Hi
[6:02pm] pawan: close to midnight here in Nepal
[6:02pm] zipR4ND: good evening
[6:02pm] erchache2000: entering in the evening here in spain
[6:02pm] DenSchub: I never submitted a pull request... 
[6:02pm] msalzberg: lolz
[6:03pm] necromancer: good afternoon all!
[6:03pm] msalzberg: heyyya
[6:03pm] DeadSuperHero: Afternoon, necromancer
[6:03pm] DeadSuperHero: DenSchub, don't feel bad. I never have, either. 
[6:03pm] sarahmei joined the chat room.
[6:03pm] Johannes__ joined the chat room.
[6:03pm] dns|CostaRica: OH HAI
[6:03pm] DenSchub: DeadSuperHero: I pushed directly to master^^
[6:03pm] msalzberg: hola sarahmei
[6:03pm] DeadSuperHero: Hai sarahmei
[6:03pm] necromancer: feels good to get back into the project again as i've had to be somewhat absent due to snagging a new job
[6:03pm] msalzberg: necromancer: yay!
[6:03pm] sarahmei: Morning
[6:04pm] DeadSuperHero: necromancer, yeah, I know how that is. Well welcome back anyway! 
[6:04pm] jjoe joined the chat room.
[6:04pm] necromancer: thanks 
[6:04pm] Arctic: Wow D* is very international , never noticed it  that much before  
[6:04pm] msalzberg: all over the worlds
[6:04pm] msalzberg: all 13 colonys
[6:04pm] DeadSuperHero: Oh yeah. There are pods all over the place.
[6:04pm] grippi joined the chat room.
[6:04pm] dns|CostaRica: yeah, makes it hard to schedule a meeting
[6:04pm] DeadSuperHero: We even have one on Mars.
[6:04pm] dns|CostaRica: poor Rekkado 
[6:05pm] msalzberg: lolololololololol
[6:05pm] MrZYX joined the chat room.
[6:05pm] DeadSuperHero: Hai MrZYX
[6:05pm] DeadSuperHero:                          
[6:05pm] duck1123 joined the chat room.
[6:05pm] msalzberg: ok great MrZYX is here so now we can start
[6:05pm] grippi: wowzers look at all of these people
[6:05pm] MrZYX: lol, hi
[6:05pm] msalzberg: ok
[6:05pm] msalzberg: so here is the rough agenda, to give you all an idea
[6:05pm] zip4RAND joined the chat room.
[6:05pm] DenSchub: Hi MrZYX
[6:05pm] msalzberg: and we can dive into them one at a time
[6:06pm] msalzberg: Agenda:
[6:06pm] msalzberg: 1. Bug Mash Monday! 
[6:06pm] msalzberg: 2. Redesign Pin => Follow
[6:06pm] msalzberg: 3. Federation testing
[6:06pm] msalzberg: 4. Things we need help with:
[6:06pm] dns|CostaRica: get you comfortable.
[6:06pm] dns|CostaRica: move in for the kill.
[6:06pm] msalzberg: 5. Questions?
[6:06pm] pawan: Excited
[6:06pm] msalzberg: copa?
[6:06pm] msalzberg: k!
[6:06pm] dns|CostaRica: CAPYPASTA!
[6:06pm] msalzberg: 1. Bug mash monday!
[6:06pm] msalzberg: looks like the second week
[6:06pm] msalzberg: turned into a double week!
[6:07pm] msalzberg: DeadSuperHero: who is all here
[6:07pm] msalzberg: and would the bug mashers please stand up
[6:07pm] stwf_: its hard to get a fix a done and specced in just a week!
[6:07pm] msalzberg: i see raven24 stwf_  and diasp
[6:07pm] • str4ngerZ iz here
[6:07pm] stwf_: if you don't know the code at all...
[6:07pm] msalzberg: understood
[6:07pm] msalzberg: do you think he bugs are too big
[6:07pm] msalzberg: our hints are not helpful enough?
[6:07pm] msalzberg: id love any feedback you have to make your life easier
[6:08pm] stwf_: nope just that a week may not be enough
[6:08pm] msalzberg: ok
[6:08pm] msalzberg: if they spill over, I am ok with that
[6:08pm] msalzberg:                          
[6:08pm] sonst-was joined the chat room.
[6:08pm] msalzberg: I guess maybe more of the point would be to get a semi constant stream of things that were easy to pick off
[6:08pm] DeadSuperHero: I think part of the problem has been writing tests, it kind of slowed a lot of people down, especially because the newcomers may not have documentation resources they need.
[6:08pm] raven24: I think if you understood RoR, then there should be no huge problems with getting bugs solved
[6:09pm] msalzberg: yeah, tests are REALLY important
[6:09pm] stwf_: I have issues with the jasmine specs, like getting fixtures created
[6:09pm] msalzberg: with as many moving parts
[6:09pm] raven24: but the testing may be new to some people
[6:09pm] dmorley: I would just throw out there that I wanted to grab a few, but would not have time till the end of week/weekend but did not want to hold things up by taking one i would work on 7 days later
[6:09pm] msalzberg: dmorley: thats a good point
[6:09pm] msalzberg: so about fixutres
[6:09pm] dns|CostaRica: stwf_: we're actually trying to move away from jasmine fixtures
[6:09pm] msalzberg: grippi what is the rake command to regenerate the controller fixtures
[6:09pm] msalzberg: ok
[6:10pm] msalzberg: don't listen to me
[6:10pm] dns|CostaRica: in place of using jasmine factories in our backbone stuff
[6:10pm] sarahmei: msalzberg: Davis just released a sample rails app showing how he uses jasmine
[6:10pm] dns|CostaRica: so our legacy tests rely on them
[6:10pm] grippi: rake generate_fixtures
[6:10pm] msalzberg: what about if it is on a dom fragment
[6:10pm] stwf_: there is rake generate_fixtures
[6:10pm] sarahmei: Miggt be helpful for folks new to jasmine testing
[6:10pm] msalzberg: ok
[6:10pm] dns|CostaRica: msalzberg: backbone views mean you don't need dom fragments
[6:10pm] msalzberg: k
[6:10pm] grippi: dns|CostaRica and i have been creating js factories around our backbones models
[6:10pm] msalzberg: right
[6:10pm] msalzberg: yeah
[6:10pm] sarahmei: Brcause our jasmine setup is a little crazy
[6:10pm] dns|CostaRica: we're testing most of our backbone views detached from the dome
[6:10pm] msalzberg: so lets get davis' thing
[6:11pm] msalzberg: and send it out the list
[6:11pm] dns|CostaRica: dome things need to be attached for crazy event reasons
[6:11pm] msalzberg: we can add it to resources to help people with jasmine
[6:11pm] dns|CostaRica: but no need for controller tests to generate views in the hot newness.
[6:11pm] msalzberg: <3s it
[6:11pm] stwf_: some thing it seems like would just be better tested with cucmber, really run in a web page though, right?
[6:11pm] msalzberg: ok other than jasmine
[6:12pm] dns|CostaRica: stwf_: you don't want to test EVERYTHING with cucumber, generally you want one or two happy path tests
[6:12pm] msalzberg: stwf_: generally cukes are good for the happy path testing
[6:12pm] Johannes___ joined the chat room.
[6:12pm] pilupetutti joined the chat room.
[6:12pm] stwf_: I think the genreate_fixtures fails silently if you didn't set up the spec right, so its hard to debug
[6:12pm] mathis_ joined the chat room.
[6:12pm] zipR4ND left the chat room. (Ping timeout: 244 seconds)
[6:12pm] dns|CostaRica: we have a goal of getting the cukes to run in under 5minutes on a  "normal computer"
[6:12pm] lnxwalt joined the chat room.
[6:12pm] dns|CostaRica: if it takes more than that people don't run them.
[6:12pm] grippi: stwf_: try running rspec spec/controllers/jasmine_fixtures
[6:12pm] Arctic left the chat room. (Ping timeout: 245 seconds)
[6:12pm] star_ left the chat room. (Ping timeout: 245 seconds)
[6:12pm] pawan left the chat room. (Ping timeout: 245 seconds)
[6:12pm] mathis left the chat room. (Ping timeout: 245 seconds)
[6:13pm] dns|CostaRica: But the tests are hella important for bug mash monday
[6:13pm] msalzberg: so i see we have some outstanding knowledge to share re:jasime
[6:13pm] dns|CostaRica: cause if there aren't tests, the bugs will regress
[6:13pm] msalzberg: but DeadSuperHero, what other things got fixed?
[6:13pm] stwf_: I agree test are important!
[6:13pm] DeadSuperHero: Tons of stuff actually.
[6:13pm] dns|CostaRica: when dan and I did the backbone rewrite, we got all the tests to pass, and a bunch of features disappeared
[6:13pm] msalzberg: stwf_: you make a great effort we appreciate it ++
[6:13pm] raven24: I think there should be a testing 101 in the wiki, what is supposed to test what and how does one create new tests
[6:13pm] DeadSuperHero: 6 out of the 8 bugs already have pull requests
[6:13pm] DeadSuperHero: 2 of which have already been merged.
[6:13pm] dns|CostaRica: so we had to decide "OK, those features never existed, lets move on"
[6:13pm] dns|CostaRica: no tests = not fixed 
[6:13pm] msalzberg: ok so it sounds like we need to look at pull requests 
[6:14pm] msalzberg: is anyone here with an outstanding pull request?
[6:14pm] grippi: i was looking at them yesterday
[6:14pm] msalzberg: that wants to speak up
[6:14pm] grippi: a bunch weren't tested
[6:14pm] msalzberg: orly grippi
[6:14pm] msalzberg: ok
[6:14pm] msalzberg: we should follow up
[6:14pm] grippi: i did
[6:14pm] Johannes__ left the chat room. (Ping timeout: 245 seconds)
[6:14pm] lnxwalt left the chat room. (Client Quit)
[6:14pm] stwf_: I noticed that while the javascript contacts-index does get loaded the object Diaspora.Pages.ContactsIndex no longer gets instantiated. This threw me off a bit.
[6:15pm] msalzberg: yeah the old pages system
[6:15pm] stwf_: I have two awaiting jasmine stuff, but I've had some breakthroughs
[6:15pm] msalzberg: i think it is broken
[6:15pm] msalzberg: we have an outstanding chore
[6:15pm] msalzberg: to re-implement them with the backbone stuff
[6:15pm] grippi: pages never get instantiated anymore, i think
[6:15pm] star_ joined the chat room.
[6:15pm] dns|CostaRica: I thought they did ....
[6:15pm] stwf_: PArt of me wants to back off from big fixing untilthis redesign is done..
[6:15pm] grippi: i'll have to look into it
[6:15pm] msalzberg: hey raven24 whats the status with fixing the photos pages
[6:15pm] msalzberg: ?
[6:15pm] sarahmei: That will make it much easier to understand if we can get rid of vestigial JavaScript patterns
[6:16pm] grippi: yeah, those drive me up a wall
[6:16pm] raven24: It is usable, but not all of the features are back and I would need feedback on the code
[6:16pm] msalzberg: ok
[6:16pm] msalzberg: i will give you feedback today
[6:16pm] msalzberg:                          
[6:17pm] msalzberg: DeadSuperHero: who else are we missing
[6:17pm] msalzberg: actually hold that thought
[6:17pm] jaywink joined the chat room.
[6:17pm] jaywink: Hey
[6:17pm] grippi: it would be great to rewrite broken bits of old js in backbone
[6:17pm] msalzberg: so raven24 and stwf_, it would also be cool
[6:17pm] msalzberg: if you get stuck or need feedback
[6:17pm] msalzberg: to mail diaspora-dev
[6:17pm] msalzberg: and ask for it
[6:17pm] darkham joined the chat room.
[6:17pm] msalzberg: that way when we respond, other people can also read our responses
[6:17pm] msalzberg: and learn
[6:17pm] msalzberg: its a bummer closed pull requests are hard to get to
[6:18pm] raven24: Ok, I see ... I was under the impression that an open pull request would be enough to draw some attention 
[6:18pm] darkham: hi to you all
[6:18pm] msalzberg: as i feel like lots of knowledge is lost
[6:18pm] msalzberg: raven24: no it is
[6:18pm] msalzberg: but sometimes
[6:18pm] msalzberg: i don't know if its still WIP
[6:18pm] stwf_: ok, will do.
[6:18pm] msalzberg: or you are stuck
[6:18pm] msalzberg: ?
[6:18pm] raven24: sure, haven't thought about it from that angle
[6:18pm] msalzberg: yeah
[6:18pm] msalzberg: i guess even if its a comment thats like
[6:19pm] msalzberg: "i think this is pull-able"
[6:19pm] msalzberg: that will solicit feedback from us
[6:19pm] msalzberg: then we know to  give you feedback
[6:19pm] msalzberg: ok
[6:19pm] msalzberg: sorry DeadSuperHero, is there anyone else here?
[6:20pm] DeadSuperHero: Not all of the Bugmashers have shown up
[6:20pm] msalzberg: ok
[6:20pm] DeadSuperHero: Rekado in particular was one of the people whose code got merged.
[6:20pm] msalzberg: yeah rekado++
[6:20pm] DeadSuperHero: diasp.eu, too. 
[6:20pm] eebrah joined the chat room.
[6:20pm] msalzberg: well, anyone planning on doing the next bug mash, that is here?
[6:20pm] msalzberg: new blood? anyone?
[6:21pm] msalzberg: ok well we can keep working on it for next time
[6:21pm] stwf_: I'm awa next week, hoping to get my bugs cleared. THen when I get backI'll happily take on some more...
[6:21pm] msalzberg: stwf_: sounds great
[6:21pm] msalzberg: DeadSuperHero: do you think we will have another volley of bugs to release next monday?
[6:21pm] grippi: jeez, i can't even load github in this starbucks
[6:21pm] DeadSuperHero: Go at whatever pace you find necessary, stwf_
[6:21pm] stwf_: I mean lear the current ones before I go away
[6:21pm] DeadSuperHero: msalzberg, I already have a list written up. 
[6:22pm] msalzberg: DeadSuperHero++
[6:22pm] msalzberg: <3
[6:22pm] msalzberg: ok
[6:22pm] DeadSuperHero: <333333333
[6:22pm] msalzberg: so
[6:22pm] msalzberg: any questions on BMM?
[6:22pm] dns|CostaRica: so
[6:22pm] msalzberg: help?
[6:22pm] dns|CostaRica: Bugmashers <3
[6:22pm] dns|CostaRica: thanks for doing it
[6:22pm] msalzberg: ok
[6:22pm] msalzberg: rad
[6:22pm] dns|CostaRica: seems like we need a little more communication
[6:22pm] necromancer: msalzberg: sorry i was away last week mostly
[6:22pm] msalzberg: necromancer: no sweat, everyones got their own lives 
[6:22pm] dns|CostaRica: so I'm going to encourage mashers to ask us for help in diaspora-dev
[6:22pm] msalzberg: ye
[6:22pm] msalzberg: s
[6:22pm] necromancer: msalzberg: what is the proper way of contributing a bug fix?
[6:22pm] msalzberg: a pull request
[6:22pm] necromancer: feature branch + pull request?
[6:23pm] msalzberg: yessir
[6:23pm] msalzberg: + tests 
[6:23pm] necromancer: cool beans
[6:23pm] dns|CostaRica: claim a bug, right test, implement, merge 
[6:23pm] necromancer: obviously 
[6:23pm] dns|CostaRica: #protip to the mashers
[6:23pm] msalzberg: ok, bradical
[6:23pm] necromancer: msalzberg: what's your opinion on cukes though...are they required?
[6:23pm] msalzberg: we should have a quick FAQ
[6:23pm] grippi: it's easier to remember to test if you start with em first
[6:23pm] grippi: exposing the bug
[6:23pm] grippi: then making it green
[6:23pm] dns|CostaRica: if you right the test first, and it's red, then you make it go green
[6:23pm] dns|CostaRica: you know it tests it
[6:23pm] msalzberg: necromancer: we are saying happy path cuke first
[6:23pm] dns|CostaRica: ….
[6:23pm] grippi: dns|CostaRica: JINX
[6:24pm] msalzberg: lolz
[6:24pm] msalzberg: ok
[6:24pm] elb joined the chat room.
[6:24pm] dns|CostaRica: OH ME A COKE!
[6:24pm] dns|CostaRica: OWE*
[6:24pm] msalzberg: necromancer: i look forward to your bugfixesssss
[6:24pm] dns|CostaRica: moving on...
[6:24pm] msalzberg: MOVING ON
[6:24pm] msalzberg: JINX
[6:24pm] msalzberg: ok
[6:24pm] msalzberg: sry
[6:24pm] msalzberg: 2. Redesign Pin => Follow
[6:24pm] grippi: stellar
[6:24pm] dns|CostaRica: srsly
[6:24pm] msalzberg: so obviously, we made some design changes
[6:24pm] grippi: people got way confused with our changes
[6:24pm] msalzberg: we beta tested some verbiage
[6:24pm] msalzberg: yeah
[6:24pm] dns|CostaRica: I'm not stoked on follow, but might be convinced later.
[6:25pm] msalzberg: in terms of the word
[6:25pm] msalzberg: but, the feature itself is solid
[6:25pm] msalzberg: and now there are participations
[6:25pm] msalzberg: which are separate than likes
[6:25pm] rovemonteux joined the chat room.
[6:25pm] grippi: we wanted to make a system that allowed people to keep track of conversations easier
[6:25pm] dns|CostaRica: I think that there will be more changes in verbiage, but at least we've demonstrated that we're not attached to our choices, and want to see what works and what doesn't 
[6:25pm] stwf_: personally I like'Pin', but I feel it is different than 'Like' and both are useful
[6:25pm] grippi: yeah
[6:26pm] grippi: we've been listening to users' reactions, and have been fixing the UI accordingly
[6:26pm] grippi: stwf_: yeah
[6:26pm] stwf_: Pin to recall or keep track of stuff whether I like it or not!
[6:26pm] grippi: thats why we separated them into follow / like
[6:26pm] dns|CostaRica: pin => follow right now, we need to have an Icon for it, so we can show who is following the conversation.
[6:26pm] dns|CostaRica: which is different then who has liked.
[6:26pm] stwf_: 'Like' is a bad description, the correct idea is more like, 'I'm with you'
[6:27pm] stwf_: as in liking a pictorial of WHitney Houstons funeral, etc
[6:27pm] dns|CostaRica: agreed, but this is a really long conversation to have.
[6:27pm] msalzberg: I'm with you whitney
[6:27pm] msalzberg: im with you
[6:27pm] dns|CostaRica: too bad about the wasps..
[6:27pm] msalzberg: yeah man what a way to go
[6:27pm] msalzberg: OK
[6:27pm] dns|CostaRica: wasps got her...
[6:27pm] msalzberg: but we did learn a bunch of things
[6:28pm] msalzberg: 1. we need to focus on our tools to help people create stuff inside diaspora
[6:28pm] msalzberg: 2. simplifying the current interface is a good thing
[6:28pm] dns|CostaRica: (moar better publisher)
[6:28pm] msalzberg: 3. we need to keep pushing the sense of ownership, both in the design, and backend technology
[6:28pm] darkham: mobile app. definitely.
[6:28pm] dns|CostaRica: not just a sense of
[6:29pm] msalzberg: yeah
[6:29pm] dns|CostaRica: but conveying a sense of ownership will reinforce the literal data ownership.
[6:29pm] msalzberg: dns|CostaRica:++
[6:29pm] grippi: yeah, so we've had some learnings, and some realizations
[6:29pm] dns|CostaRica: wihc is what we wanna move towards 
[6:29pm] grippi: with the current "redesign" stuff, we were pixel pushing
[6:29pm] msalzberg: so next steps, roughly for us
[6:29pm] msalzberg: 1. as dennis said, improving publishing tools
[6:29pm] grippi: moving forward, we need to emphasize our core differentiators
[6:30pm] grippi: which is data ownership (via decentralization, etc)
[6:30pm] grippi: and playing up self expression
[6:30pm] Kevin_: ^
[6:30pm] dns|CostaRica: I would prefer "enabling" to playing up, but well said
[6:30pm] Kevin_: I think self-expression is extremely limited on Diaspora so far
[6:31pm] grippi: we ultimately want to turn diaspora into something that allows oneself to be expressive, on their own "turf"
[6:31pm] grippi: Kevin_: exactly
[6:31pm] dns|CostaRica: enabling self expression with personal data ownership and privacy OMG
[6:31pm] grippi: that's what we are aiming to tackle in the near future
[6:31pm] DeadSuperHero: Our own home on the web, so to speak.
[6:31pm] str4ngerZ: dns|CostaRica: ++
[6:31pm] dns|CostaRica: grippi ++
[6:31pm] grippi: these are things that we can aggressively tackle
[6:31pm] grippi: and they are core attributes that we have that the "others" don't
[6:32pm] grippi: so it's going to be our goal to make not an alternative, but something fundamentally different than the big guys
[6:32pm] grippi: that's how we're going to win
[6:32pm] str4ngerZ: i'd like to have federation-stability tackle'd first
[6:32pm] grippi: exactly str4ngerZ
[6:32pm] DeadSuperHero: That's a pretty high priority for us.
[6:32pm] grippi: so to give you guys a heads up on the roadmap
[6:32pm] grippi: it's getting federation nailed down
[6:33pm] grippi: then making installation super dumb and easy
[6:33pm] grippi: then making it easy to customize
[6:33pm] grippi: pretty simple
[6:33pm] necromancer: grippi: i absolutely agree with <grippi> so it's going to be our goal to make not an alternative, but something fundamentally different than the big guys
[6:33pm] grippi: yeah
[6:33pm] dns|CostaRica: str4ngerZ federation is one of our top goals
[6:33pm] stwf_: what forms of customization do you mean? themes? or features etc
[6:33pm] grippi: that's how we're gonna CRUSH THE SCENE
[6:33pm] str4ngerZ: grippi: installation superdump & easy VS rails+rvm?
[6:33pm] necromancer: i have a start on the installer if anyone's interested
[6:33pm] grippi: stwf_: we've been kicking around some ideas internally
[6:34pm] dns|CostaRica: msalzberg did some awesome work last week to make federation easier to test
[6:34pm] necromancer: i think we should make it a self-executing Thor script in a bianry
[6:34pm] necromancer: binary*
[6:34pm] necromancer: i've made a few of these in the past month and they're super effective for controlling your app
[6:34pm] grippi: we want to gather our grumblings and mumblings a bit more before we present our proposal to everyone
[6:34pm] msalzberg: yeah, in terms of easier install, until federation gets revamped
[6:34pm] str4ngerZ: dns|CostaRica: i'm in for creating a federation-testsuite
[6:34pm] stwf_: it sounds great I'm glad you're approaching htis from a clean slate
[6:34pm] grippi: yeah
[6:34pm] msalzberg: i don't think we really want 'end users' to install diaspora
[6:34pm] dns|CostaRica: and now we're trying to take down the barrier to entry to running your own pod
[6:34pm] msalzberg: we want to target to be easy to install for developers
[6:34pm] msalzberg: but once we get those things nailed down
[6:34pm] msalzberg: then we want to focus on end user installations
[6:35pm] dns|CostaRica: of a higher priority right now than installation, is reducing the burden on the server
[6:35pm] dns|CostaRica: str4ngerZ lets talk more off line, federation is going through some big changes
[6:35pm] grippi: dns|CostaRica: & a more reliable federation architecture
[6:35pm] grippi: (kfed)
[6:35pm] stwf_: so these ideas are to be done pre-beta?
[6:35pm] Kevin_: Small question that probably asks for a big answer: how do you see small pods work properly with hashtags?
[6:35pm] dns|CostaRica: yeah, I'm "spiking" on a new federation architecture this week in costa rica
[6:36pm] grippi: Kevin_: right now, no
[6:36pm] dns|CostaRica: a spike is when you go off, and build an experimental version of something as a proof of concept
[6:36pm] dns|CostaRica: it's not intended to be released to the world directly
[6:36pm] dns|CostaRica: but to prove the concept
[6:36pm] grippi: Kevin_: hashtags are a feature that the big guys have
[6:36pm] dns|CostaRica: so we can build a better version
[6:36pm] grippi: it's a cliche thing that has helped us
[6:36pm] grippi: but it's not going to make people use diaspora
[6:37pm] grippi: a hashtag search on twitter is most likely always going to trump one on diaspora
[6:37pm] grippi: and that's just the way it's going to be
[6:37pm] Kevin_: Yeah
[6:37pm] grippi: and that's why we're attacking things from a different angle
[6:37pm] grippi: because we can't beat the big guys at their own game
[6:37pm] grippi: we need to reinvent the game
[6:37pm] dns|CostaRica: in the future, when we have moar resources, we can maybe tackle indexing federated data in a privacy supported way
[6:37pm] grippi: (sorry for being abstract)
[6:37pm] dns|CostaRica: but that is a hard problem
[6:37pm] dns|CostaRica: that we don't currently have the resources for
[6:37pm] dns|CostaRica: (its what googles original business model was)
[6:38pm] stwf_: I guess a problem is for someone setting up a solo or family pod seeing interesting posts
[6:38pm] Kevin_: It's not abstract Grippi, I get it 
[6:38pm] grippi: stwf_: yeah, exactly
[6:38pm] msalzberg: stwf_: i do think kfed can solve some of these issues
[6:38pm] dns|CostaRica: stwf_ we want to give users ways of controlling their data, possibly without setting up their own servers
[6:38pm] dns|CostaRica: we're examine setting up a master/slave pod type of thing
[6:38pm] msalzberg: there is decentralized federated infastructure
[6:38pm] dangar4l: What about integration with identi.ca?
[6:38pm] grippi: as we see it, the main driver for someone to set up their own diaspora installation is more akin to why someone would set up their own wordpress installation
[6:38pm] msalzberg: that a small pod could subscribe to a community hub
[6:39pm] stwf_: most people will not be setting up servers for sure
[6:39pm] msalzberg: dangar4l: we would accept a working pull request with tests
[6:39pm] dns|CostaRica: as joindiaspora had to upgrade to 32 gigs of ram in the database, we want to look at ways of making it smaller
[6:39pm] elb: grippi: that may be true, re: hashtag search on twitter, but it's veyr hard to "stumble" on anything without federated hashtags (or some form of federated search -> feed)
[6:39pm] grippi: elb: right
[6:39pm] dns|CostaRica: other people use database sharing, which is essentially federation on the database level
[6:39pm] dns|CostaRica: since diaspora supports federation as a first class concept
[6:39pm] necromancer: i would like to see this project stick to questions like "how can we improve the D* platform?" rather than "how can we integrate D* into <x> platform?"
[6:39pm] dns|CostaRica: we're looking at integrating it more deeply into our architecture
[6:39pm] msalzberg: necromancer++
[6:39pm] necromancer: i've seen way too much talk about <insert social network here> integration on the list...
[6:40pm] msalzberg: agreed, its not super high priority at the momenet
[6:40pm] dns|CostaRica: necromancer we don't pay attention to those posts 
[6:40pm] erchache2000: integration wiht identi.ca/statusnet will be great!
[6:40pm] dns|CostaRica: write it!
[6:40pm] dns|CostaRica: do it well!
[6:40pm] msalzberg: why?  you can do it with 50 million other things 
[6:40pm] dns|CostaRica: talk to us about how you're planning on doing it
[6:40pm] dns|CostaRica: so we can make sure it fits in
[6:40pm] dns|CostaRica: but we're aiming at being bigger than another social network
[6:40pm] erchache2000: dns|CostaRica: how big are innodb database of joindiaspora?
[6:41pm] grippi: erchache2000: too big
[6:41pm] dns|CostaRica: we want to make it really easy for users to own and control their databases
[6:41pm] erchache2000: grippi: HOW big
[6:41pm] dns|CostaRica: erchache2000: last week our indexes took up 30 gigs of ram
[6:41pm] erchache2000: 3 gb
[6:41pm] dns|CostaRica: we refactored the database
[6:41pm] erchache2000: neeeeee
[6:41pm] dns|CostaRica: and now we're running in 16 gigs
[6:41pm] erchache2000: disk space!
[6:41pm] grippi: erchache2000: why?
[6:41pm] erchache2000: mysql eats so memory you put it
[6:41pm] grippi: but why does it matter?
[6:41pm] msalzberg: its like 3-4gb gzipped
[6:42pm] msalzberg: last time i checked
[6:42pm] erchache2000: REAL data
[6:42pm] dns|CostaRica: which I guess means like 8 or 9 ungzipped
[6:42pm] sarahmei: Are you posting transcripts of this later, because I can't keep up with you guys
[6:42pm] erchache2000: without compression
[6:42pm] erchache2000: yeah dns|CostaRica
[6:42pm] rovemonteux left the chat room. (Quit: Page closed)
[6:42pm] DeadSuperHero: sarahmei, yep. 
[6:42pm] grippi: a new federation system is not about minimizing disk space in mysql as much as actually writing an efficient one
[6:42pm] msalzberg: but like maybe 70% is the permissions data
[6:42pm] msalzberg: which is just a giant join table
[6:42pm] dangar4l: Be integrated with other social networks free. Excuse my English, I am using a translator.
[6:43pm] erchache2000: msalzberg: a bad definition of relational tables?
[6:43pm] msalzberg: ?
[6:43pm] grippi: let's not concern ourselves with how large or small our database is right now
[6:43pm] grippi: this isn't constructive
[6:43pm] msalzberg: yeah grippi
[6:43pm] erchache2000: yeah right
[6:43pm] msalzberg: i wanna talk aobut
[6:43pm] erchache2000:                          
[6:43pm] msalzberg: the federation testing script i wrote this week
[6:44pm] grippi: woo
[6:44pm] msalzberg: and how if you have an hour or two, you can give us good logs of both sides of federation for your bug reports or whatnot
[6:44pm] msalzberg: which is really important, because bug reports like
[6:44pm] dns|CostaRica: its not something we keep track of
[6:44pm] dns|CostaRica: because disk space is cheap
[6:44pm] dns|CostaRica: but how much memory the db needs to run is not
[6:44pm] dns|CostaRica: two weeks ago that number was 32 gb
[6:44pm] dns|CostaRica: now it's 17gb (yay refactoring, thanks msalzberg grippi and sarahmei!)
[6:44pm] dns|CostaRica: but still 17gb is too much
[6:44pm] dns|CostaRica: we *could* implement sharing on the db level
[6:44pm] dns|CostaRica: but that would increase complexity in the code
[6:44pm] dns|CostaRica: a lot
[6:44pm] dns|CostaRica: since we already have federation
[6:44pm] dns|CostaRica: we are looking at ways of having master/slave pods
[6:44pm] dns|CostaRica: so joindiaspora can be made up of slave pods
[6:44pm] dns|CostaRica: (a fact which the users shouldn't ever have to be aware of)
[6:44pm] msalzberg: oops
[6:44pm] msalzberg: dns|CostaRica: is is costa rica
[6:44pm] msalzberg: and his internet sucks
[6:44pm] dns|CostaRica: yup
[6:44pm] msalzberg: ok
[6:45pm] zikalify-afk is now known as zikalify.
[6:45pm] zikalify: ah damn, forgot this was on 
[6:45pm] msalzberg: so basically, did everyone see my email?
[6:45pm] dns|CostaRica: so we want to make federation not suck
[6:45pm] grippi: zikalify: sup paul?
[6:45pm] duck1123: so multiple slave pods would work together to serve the same domain?
[6:45pm] msalzberg: ?
[6:45pm] dns|CostaRica: duck1123: maybe
[6:45pm] grippi: duck1123: bingo
[6:45pm] dns|CostaRica: its an idea we want to experiment with
[6:45pm] msalzberg: ok so i fyou have diaspora running on your home devbox
[6:45pm] dns|CostaRica: if we can have federation within a "pod"
[6:46pm] dns|CostaRica: that means federation will have to be awesome
[6:46pm] duck1123: at the end of the day, isn't that still essentially sharding?
[6:46pm] str4ngerZ: msalzberg: what about your testscript? src?
[6:46pm] msalzberg: my script makes two dbs, and starts two servers, two redis, and two workers
[6:46pm] duck1123: I guess not
[6:46pm] dns|CostaRica: duck1123: we don't want to shard on the db level, it will increase code complexity and only benefit big pods
[6:46pm] msalzberg: str4ngerZ: its just a manual process right now
[6:46pm] grippi: msalzberg: how much ram does that take (ballpark?)
[6:46pm] msalzberg: but we could start it from a cucumber level or soethign
[6:46pm] msalzberg: grippi: a crapload
[6:46pm] msalzberg: simplest thing that works
[6:46pm] dns|CostaRica: if we make it so that a pod works for a certain number of users, and their data can be moved around easily when a pod gets over worked
[6:46pm] msalzberg: its by no means pretty, but now it is at least easy enough to set up
[6:46pm] grippi: lemme start it on my box so we can get a ballpark number
[6:47pm] grippi: what's the command to run it?
[6:47pm] dns|CostaRica: federation and personal data ownership will benefit
[6:47pm] msalzberg: and then send messages between them
[6:47pm] grippi: 8gb of ram + ssd = the terminator
[6:47pm] msalzberg:        http://groups.google.com/group/diaspora-dev/browse_thread/thread/a0777f10ba900272    
[6:47pm] grippi: thx
[6:47pm] msalzberg: grippi:^
[6:48pm] erchache2000: I have a mysql server with 8 gb ram and send data to 60000 diary users without problems
[6:48pm] grippi: internet here is really slow & i can't exactly search for things
[6:48pm] dns|CostaRica: I keep wanting to rip my clothes off and jump into the pool, but then I realize that my family is here and they'd be freaked out. totally prude.
[6:49pm] erchache2000: Should i see my.cnf file of joindiaspora mysql server?
[6:49pm] dns|CostaRica: I wish I were in costa rica with californians...
[6:49pm] dns|CostaRica: erchache2000 ec2
[6:49pm] grippi: erchache2000: we're using amazon RDS
[6:49pm] erchache2000: isnt problem
[6:49pm] erchache2000: and you use mysql inside?
[6:49pm] star_ left the chat room. (Quit: Page closed)
[6:49pm] grippi: yeah
[6:49pm] grippi: amazon configures mysql for you
[6:49pm] dns|CostaRica: other pods use postgres
[6:49pm] grippi: with RDS
[6:49pm] Merle joined the chat room.
[6:49pm] dns|CostaRica: which means we can't do db specific optimizations
[6:50pm] duck1123: RDS acts like mysql
[6:50pm] erchache2000: http://tools.percona.com/ see that
[6:50pm] erchache2000: you can make you own my.cnf
[6:50pm] dns|CostaRica: rds is mysql, it's a managed mysql box
[6:50pm] dns|CostaRica: lets not get sidetracked
[6:50pm] dns|CostaRica: what we're saying is
[6:50pm] dns|CostaRica: there are problems with federation
[6:50pm] erchache2000: its very usefull
[6:50pm] msalzberg: yeah
[6:50pm] msalzberg: so please
[6:50pm] dns|CostaRica: plz stop talking about dbs kthnx
[6:50pm] erchache2000: yeah
[6:50pm] msalzberg: try to get the federation testing working
[6:51pm] msalzberg: if you can
[6:51pm] baaab joined the chat room.
[6:51pm] dns|CostaRica: there are problems with federation, we want to fix them
[6:51pm] dns|CostaRica: this will have a bunch of benefits
[6:51pm] msalzberg: and lets improve it to make it easier to generate bug reports with logs from both side of the transation
[6:51pm] dns|CostaRica: and should reduce the burden of running a pod
[6:51pm] msalzberg: please direct questions or pro tips to the list
[6:51pm] pilupetutti left the chat room.
[6:51pm] dns|CostaRica: we're also talking about changing our growth model to be more in line with federation
[6:51pm] msalzberg: as i am hoping this really simple improvement could spur a whole set up people helping us test
[6:51pm] dns|CostaRica: things are going to change in a big way
[6:52pm] msalzberg: ok
[6:52pm] dns|CostaRica: we want to test it, and keep you guys with us through the process
[6:52pm] msalzberg: any questions bout federation testing
[6:52pm] Merle left the chat room. (Client Quit)
[6:52pm] msalzberg: ...
[6:52pm] msalzberg: ..
[6:52pm] msalzberg: next
[6:52pm] msalzberg: 4. Things we need help with:
[6:52pm] raven24: so you are saying we should fire up the two test servers and go crazy, let stuff federate between them, then send you the logs
[6:52pm] dns|CostaRica: backwards compatibility...
[6:52pm] msalzberg: raven24: not just for kicks
[6:52pm] msalzberg: but if you want to figure out
[6:53pm] dns|CostaRica: we are planning on changing the federation model
[6:53pm] msalzberg: why are public fotos not federating?
[6:53pm] msalzberg: or something specific
[6:53pm] msalzberg: or why is ignore user not ignoring remote people which have been ignored
[6:53pm] msalzberg: stuff like that
[6:53pm] raven24: understood
[6:53pm] msalzberg: its hard to tell on production machines
[6:53pm] dangar4l: johpunk: escriba
[6:53pm] msalzberg: because the logs just fly by
[6:53pm] grippi: msalzberg: booting federation testing in the meanwhile (fyi)
[6:53pm] dns|CostaRica: there are problems with federation, we *need* to fix them before alpha
[6:54pm] dns|CostaRica: err beta
[6:54pm] msalzberg: yeah
[6:54pm] msalzberg: so this means its going to fundamentally change
[6:54pm] dns|CostaRica: backwards compatibility is not a major priority, so pods will have to upgrade to stay with us.
[6:54pm] grippi: which means all major forks will break
[6:54pm] msalzberg: and since we are alpha(duh), we are not going to support the current federation ssytem
[6:54pm] dns|CostaRica: the goal of this is to make having your own pod even easier
[6:54pm] zikalify left the chat room. (Quit: zikalify)
[6:54pm] msalzberg: yeah so this doesn't mean its getting rolled out
[6:54pm] msalzberg: tommorw
[6:55pm] msalzberg: or next week
[6:55pm] msalzberg: but soon
[6:55pm] dns|CostaRica: after we announce beta, we won't be chaging things in such a major way.
[6:55pm] stwf_: sounds good, make sure the system you go with is rock solid, nothing else is important!
[6:55pm] msalzberg: just so people don't say "we had no idea!!!"
[6:55pm] msalzberg: dns|CostaRica++
[6:55pm] str4ngerZ: it would be nice to have eraly information and docu / branches on the changes
[6:55pm] dns|CostaRica: str4ngerZ: thats what this is.
[6:55pm] msalzberg: we code it all in the open
[6:55pm] msalzberg: so until it settles down
[6:55pm] dns|CostaRica: we're saying "we don't know, we're experimenting, as things are change we'll keep you up to date"
[6:56pm] johpunk: dangar4l: ?
[6:57pm] dns|CostaRica: mai interwedbs suck 
[6:57pm] duck1123: Are the federation changes listed anywhere?
[6:57pm] zikalify joined the chat room.
[6:57pm] dns|CostaRica: duck1123: they aren't done
[6:57pm] dns|CostaRica: we're experimenting
[6:57pm] dns|CostaRica: I'm in costa rica right now playing with some ideas
[6:57pm] dns|CostaRica: "spiking"
[6:57pm] dns|CostaRica: spiking is when you test an idea in the smallest way possible
[6:57pm] dns|CostaRica: maybe not the cleanest way
[6:58pm] dns|CostaRica: but its about proving the concept
[6:58pm] dns|CostaRica: and then heading back to master
[6:58pm] dns|CostaRica: and starting over and doing it right
[6:58pm] dns|CostaRica: after the concept is proved internally we will alert people of our plans
[6:58pm] msalzberg: i guess general themes, dns|CostaRica
[6:58pm] msalzberg: like
[6:58pm] msalzberg: json based
[6:58pm] raven24: I'd love to see federation explained like sarah did on the devblog with webfinger, when it's finished 
[6:58pm] msalzberg: relying more heavily on the client
[6:58pm] msalzberg: raven24: absolutely
[6:59pm] msalzberg: how it is going to work is evolving
[6:59pm] duck1123: Ok, I'm the developer of a federated social application, an I only have basic integration with diaspora working thus far. Want to make sure I stay as compatible as possible
[6:59pm] dns|CostaRica: right now a pod has to keep track of every communication it is aware of
[6:59pm] msalzberg: duck1123: cool!
[6:59pm] str4ngerZ: i'd like to get to know if **before** it's officially invented
[6:59pm] dns|CostaRica: which means jd/diasp.org esssentially have copies of each others datasets
[6:59pm] necromancer: msalzberg: our eventual goal is to make the Rails app essentially be an API for the browser-side JS client to talk to
[6:59pm] dns|CostaRica: we want to change that, to make it so that jd asks diap.org for what it needs to know more often
[6:59pm] str4ngerZ: s/if/it/
[7:00pm] necromancer: right?
[7:00pm] dns|CostaRica: and doesn't try to persist that.
[7:00pm] dns|CostaRica: or maybe chaches it temporarily
[7:00pm] msalzberg: necromancer: we are already mostly there
[7:00pm] msalzberg: with the backbone stuff
[7:00pm] necromancer: yeah
[7:00pm] arcticmonkey joined the chat room.
[7:00pm] msalzberg: for the most part, most of the stuff is a js client talking to a server that emits json
[7:00pm] dns|CostaRica: but your own pod stays the canonical source of your data
[7:00pm] sarahmei left the chat room. (Quit: Quit)
[7:00pm] dns|CostaRica: which means more ownership of your data
[7:00pm] necromancer: right
[7:00pm] raven24: would that also solve the "history problem" of a pod not getting any data, when it's down?
[7:00pm] dns|CostaRica: our current federation system has major personal data ownership problems
[7:01pm] msalzberg: yeah
[7:01pm] dns|CostaRica: we we want to bring these things in line
[7:01pm] dns|CostaRica: so instead of every pod storing everything
[7:01pm] dns|CostaRica: we want to have it be more of a system of asking for what you need to know more often.
[7:02pm] dns|CostaRica: this will make it so users have more control. which is a good thing.
[7:02pm] dns|CostaRica: .....
[7:02pm] msalzberg: ok
[7:02pm] dns|CostaRica: SO...
[7:02pm] duck1123: so this interface would be made available to end users as well?
[7:02pm] donnerdrummel left the chat room. (Ping timeout: 255 seconds)
[7:03pm] AsAck joined the chat room.
[7:03pm] msalzberg: what do you mean?
[7:03pm] msalzberg: i want to keep moving
[7:03pm] msalzberg: as we are going to go over
[7:03pm] dns|CostaRica: duck1123 it will be open.
[7:03pm] necromancer: duck1123: yes
[7:03pm] msalzberg: other things that we need help with
[7:03pm] dns|CostaRica: so
[7:03pm] necromancer: the short answer 
[7:03pm] msalzberg: the wiki is crazy sauce right now
[7:03pm] dns|CostaRica: we need help with the wiki!
[7:03pm] duck1123: ok
[7:03pm] msalzberg: there is lots of stuff
[7:03pm] msalzberg: we need to delete honestly
[7:03pm] dns|CostaRica: our wiki is tragically out of data
[7:03pm] msalzberg: its usefull
[7:03pm] dns|CostaRica: and has too much
[7:03pm] msalzberg: but it needs to be more straightforward
[7:04pm] dns|CostaRica: if you see a bad page in the wiki, kill it.
[7:04pm] msalzberg: and geared more towards developers
[7:04pm] dns|CostaRica: if you see old info, remove it.
[7:04pm] msalzberg: getting it running
[7:04pm] grippi: let's make a wiki (seriously) identifying the strengths and weaknesses of our wikis
[7:04pm] grippi: so we can cut out the excess
[7:04pm] msalzberg:                          
[7:04pm] grippi: and provide devs with the stuff they want
[7:04pm] dns|CostaRica: the smaller the wiki is, the less maintenance we'll have to do, the more we can stay on top of it, the more true it will be
[7:04pm] necromancer: grippi: how about we create a to-do list instead?
[7:04pm] dns|CostaRica: it has swelled to a place where it is full of information that is no longer true.
[7:04pm] msalzberg: can't we just make a page
[7:04pm] grippi: necromancer: how about yes
[7:04pm] msalzberg: no new services!
[7:04pm] grippi: i'm open to whatever
[7:04pm] duck1123: grippi: but that page itself would likely not make the cut
[7:05pm] msalzberg:                          
[7:05pm] grippi: as long as it involves identifying dev wants and needs
[7:05pm] necromancer: lol
[7:05pm] donnerdrummel joined the chat room.
[7:05pm] dns|CostaRica: a todo list page on the wiki 
[7:05pm] msalzberg: yeah its not the place for feature requests
[7:05pm] msalzberg: from users
[7:05pm] necromancer: ahh never mind guys i thought tadalist.com was collaborative
[7:05pm] msalzberg: but feature requests from developers
[7:05pm] necromancer: "feature requests from developers" should never happen. if you're a developer, fucking code the feature and submit a pull req
[7:05pm] msalzberg: we need to come up with an outline for it all
[7:06pm] msalzberg: necromancer: in a perfect world, yes
[7:06pm] dns|CostaRica: github needs to be more about making it so diaspora developers can work efficiently
[7:06pm] Johannes__ joined the chat room.
[7:06pm] dns|CostaRica: github is for developers.
[7:06pm] msalzberg: yeah
[7:06pm] msalzberg: ok so also
[7:06pm] msalzberg: i was wondering
[7:06pm] dns|CostaRica: yes!
[7:06pm] msalzberg: can a newbie developer
[7:06pm] msalzberg: make  a vid or detailed blog post
[7:06pm] grippi: heads up: i'm switching to tethering... brb linux
[7:06pm] msalzberg: on how to submit a bug?
[7:06pm] sonst-was is now known as sonst-wafk.
[7:06pm] msalzberg: raven24: maybe?
[7:07pm] msalzberg: it would be cool to have a guide from a contributor
[7:07pm] msalzberg: outlining the process
[7:07pm] msalzberg: or even like
[7:07pm] msalzberg: a vid on
[7:07pm] ktf joined the chat room.
[7:07pm] jaywink left the chat room. (Ping timeout: 245 seconds)
[7:07pm] msalzberg: "how to write a jasmine test"
[7:07pm] msalzberg: or something of that nature?
[7:07pm] msalzberg: raven24? stwf_? diasp ?
[7:07pm] Kevin_ left the chat room. (Ping timeout: 245 seconds)
[7:07pm] raven24: ok I see where this is going
[7:07pm] arcticmonkey left the chat room. (Ping timeout: 245 seconds)
[7:08pm] msalzberg: you say that so ominously 
[7:08pm] raven24: might be able to do a little bit in febuary
[7:08pm] msalzberg: it is feburary!
[7:08pm] necromancer: i'd like to volunteer to clean up the wiki
[7:08pm] raven24: in march my semester starts again...
[7:08pm] msalzberg: raven24: ah i see
[7:08pm] msalzberg: necromancer: that would be awesome
[7:08pm] dns|CostaRica: necromancer: great thanks!
[7:08pm] dns|CostaRica: enlist help!
[7:08pm] msalzberg: it just needs to be much leaner and meaner
[7:08pm] mathis_ left the chat room. (Ping timeout: 245 seconds)
[7:08pm] Johannes___ left the chat room. (Ping timeout: 245 seconds)
[7:08pm] ktr_ left the chat room. (Ping timeout: 245 seconds)
[7:08pm] msalzberg: we should brainstorm a general outline
[7:08pm] msalzberg: and then go from there
[7:09pm] necromancer: right
[7:09pm] raven24: do you know the railscast vids?
[7:09pm] raven24: like those?
[7:09pm] msalzberg: raven24: yessir
[7:09pm] jjoe left the chat room. (Ping timeout: 245 seconds)
[7:09pm] msalzberg: they don't even have to be as fancy
[7:09pm] str4ngerZ: before leaner and meaner it should be correct and complete
[7:09pm] msalzberg: but they are a good start
[7:09pm] msalzberg: yeah
[7:09pm] baaab left the chat room. (Ping timeout: 245 seconds)
[7:09pm] dns|CostaRica: raven24 thanks for all your work reaching out to n00bs, it's really helping
[7:09pm] msalzberg: i also do want to focus on perhaps only having detailed instructions on the wiki for certain platforms
[7:10pm] dns|CostaRica: and a major shoutout to rekado for that as well
[7:10pm] dns|CostaRica: it's really necessary to have people doing that in the community.
[7:10pm] dns|CostaRica: so thank you.
[7:10pm] msalzberg: id rather support a couple of things really well than have instructions for 500 different setups
[7:10pm] jaywink joined the chat room.
[7:10pm] raven24: I once was a noob, too 
[7:10pm] msalzberg: something like osx, ubuntu and vagrant/virtualbox
[7:10pm] str4ngerZ: you cannot copy&paste from a video
[7:10pm] msalzberg: then people could publish other guides elsewhere
[7:10pm] raven24: so I know how good it feels getting helped
[7:10pm] grippi left the chat room. (Ping timeout: 245 seconds)
[7:11pm] msalzberg: str4ngerZ: well we can do an ascii cast too
[7:11pm] dns|CostaRica: telling windows people they have to run it in vagrant would remove a bunch of concerns… 
[7:11pm] msalzberg: yeah
[7:11pm] str4ngerZ: videso would be great for beginners to explain the interface and options
[7:11pm] msalzberg: i would be down only supporting 3 configurations for now
[7:11pm] raven24: transcribing the commands used in a video is not the great problem
[7:11pm] mathis joined the chat room.
[7:12pm] msalzberg: again, i want to focus on developer resources right now
[7:12pm] donnerdrummel left the chat room. (Ping timeout: 240 seconds)
[7:12pm] dns|CostaRica: and enabling developers to be effective
[7:12pm] msalzberg: when we are beta, we can focus on our friendliness in setup
[7:12pm] msalzberg: yeah
[7:12pm] msalzberg: re: users
[7:12pm] msalzberg: ok
[7:12pm] msalzberg: so thats basically it, does anyone have any questions?
[7:13pm] dns|CostaRica: ok 
[7:13pm] msalzberg: ...
[7:13pm] str4ngerZ: yeah: what resources
[7:13pm] msalzberg: can someone post this transcript on the wiki?
[7:13pm] DeadSuperHero: I'll do it.
[7:13pm] msalzberg: thx
[7:13pm] msalzberg: str4ngerZ: ?
[7:13pm] str4ngerZ: to use when one want to stay updated
[7:13pm] str4ngerZ: with the latest development?
[7:14pm] msalzberg: i would follow the project on github
[7:14pm] str4ngerZ: msalzberg: wanted to break your ... .. .
[7:14pm] msalzberg: subscribe to our devblog
[7:14pm] msalzberg: its all good!
[7:14pm] necromancer: also the diaspora-dev email list
[7:14pm] Kevin_ joined the chat room.
[7:14pm] msalzberg: bam! yes
[7:14pm] msalzberg: also, come hang out on diaspora-dev
[7:14pm] ktf left the chat room. (Quit: Page closed)
[7:14pm] donnerdrummel joined the chat room.
[7:14pm] grippi joined the chat room.
[7:14pm] msalzberg: the pushes come into the room via bot
[7:15pm] msalzberg: and we get a decent bit of banter around interesting ones
[7:15pm] grippi: sry... iPhone tethering doesn't allow irc for some reason
[7:15pm] str4ngerZ: dont use mucho google 
[7:15pm] rog joined the chat room.
[7:15pm] dns|CostaRica: any other questions?
[7:15pm] raven24: noe
[7:15pm] raven24: *one
[7:16pm] raven24: will this IRC session be weekly/monthly/otherly
[7:16pm] grippi: i gotta jet
[7:16pm] grippi: pleasure talking with all of you
[7:16pm] msalzberg: we are shooting
[7:16pm] msalzberg: for every 2 weeks
[7:16pm] grippi: see on you on the interwebs!
[7:16pm] grippi: ciao
[7:16pm] grippi left the chat room. (Remote host closed the connection)
[7:16pm] msalzberg: so every other thursday
[7:16pm] raven24: ok great!
[7:16pm] DeadSuperHero: We'll always announce it ahead of time.
[7:16pm] msalzberg: promise
[7:16pm] msalzberg: we had a great turnout too
[7:17pm] DeadSuperHero: Yeah totally.
[7:17pm] dns|CostaRica: DeadSuperHero: burden's on you 
[7:17pm] msalzberg: although so many of you are LURKERS
[7:17pm] jaywink: a good idea this. have been silent but following 
[7:17pm] msalzberg: DAMN U LURKERS
[7:17pm] dns|CostaRica: hella Lurkey
[7:17pm] DeadSuperHero: dns|CostaRica, I knoes.
[7:17pm] dns|CostaRica: blessings to the LURKERS
[7:17pm] duck1123: this is the first one I've shown up to
[7:17pm] rog left the chat room. (Client Quit)
[7:18pm] msalzberg: ok time for me to go code awesome shit
[7:18pm] msalzberg: ill talk to all you lovelies l8r
[7:18pm] sonst-wafk: Good luck 
[7:18pm] DeadSuperHero: Good meeting, everybody. 
[7:18pm] raven24: <3
[7:18pm] msalzberg: dns|CostaRica: catch a tropical fish in your mouth for me
[7:18pm] jaywink: thanks guys 
[7:18pm] msalzberg: PEACE